---
description: How to make 3D Mesh Plots plots in MATLAB<sup>&reg;</sup> with Plotly.
name: 3D Mesh Plots
display_as: 3d_charts
order: 9
permalink: matlab/3d-mesh/
thumbnail: thumbnail/3d-mesh.jpg
layout: base
language: matlab
page_type: u-guide
---

## Create Mesh Plot

Create three matrices of the same size. Then plot them as a mesh plot. The plot uses `Z` for both height and color.

<pre class="mcode">
[X,Y] = meshgrid(-8:.5:8);
R = sqrt(X.^2 + Y.^2) + eps;
Z = sin(R)./R;
mesh(X,Y,Z)

fig2plotly('TreatAs', 'mesh')
</pre>

plot_0_0_create_mesh_plot



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Specify Colormap Colors for Mesh Plot

Specify the colors for a mesh plot by including a fourth matrix input, `C`. The mesh plot uses `Z` for height and `C` for color. Specify the colors using a colormap, which uses single numbers to stand for colors on a spectrum. When you use a colormap, `C` is the same size as `Z`. Add a color bar to the graph to show how the data values in `C` correspond to the colors in the colormap.

<pre class="mcode">
[X,Y] = meshgrid(-8:.5:8);
R = sqrt(X.^2 + Y.^2) + eps;
Z = sin(R)./R;
C = X.*Y;
mesh(X,Y,Z,C)
colorbar

fig2plotly('TreatAs', 'mesh')
</pre>

plot_1_0_specify_colormap_colors_for_mesh_plot



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Specify True Colors for Mesh Plot

Specify the colors for a mesh plot by including a fourth matrix input, `CO`. The mesh plot uses `Z` for height and `CO` for color. Specify the colors using truecolor, which uses triplets of numbers to stand for all possible colors. When you use truecolor, if `Z` is `m`-by-`n`, then `CO` is `m`-by-`n`-by-3. The first page of the array indicates the red component for each color, the second page indicates the green component, and the third page indicates the blue component.

<pre class="mcode">
[X,Y,Z] = peaks(25);
CO(:,:,1) = zeros(25); % red
CO(:,:,2) = ones(25).*linspace(0.5,0.6,25); % green
CO(:,:,3) = ones(25).*linspace(0,1,25); % blue
mesh(X,Y,Z,CO)

fig2plotly('TreatAs', 'mesh')
</pre>

plot_2_0_specify_true_colors_for_mesh_plot



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Modify Mesh Plot Appearance

Create a semitransparent mesh surface by specifying the `FaceAlpha` name-value pair with `0.5` as the value. To allow further modifications, assign the surface object to the variable `s`.

<pre class="mcode">
[X,Y] = meshgrid(-5:.5:5);
Z = Y.*sin(X) - X.*cos(Y);
s = mesh(X,Y,Z,'FaceAlpha','0.5')

fig2plotly('TreatAs', 'mesh')
</pre>

plot_3_0_modify_mesh_plot_appearance


<pre class="codeoutput">s = 
  Surface with properties:

       EdgeColor: 'flat'
       LineStyle: '-'
       FaceColor: [1 1 1]
    FaceLighting: 'none'
       FaceAlpha: 0.5000
           XData: [21x21 double]
           YData: [21x21 double]
           ZData: [21x21 double]
           CData: [21x21 double]

  Show all properties

</pre>


Use `s` to access and modify properties of the mesh plot after it is created. For example, add color to the face of the mesh plot by setting the `FaceColor` property.

<pre class="mcode">
s.FaceColor = 'flat';

fig2plotly('TreatAs', 'mesh')
</pre>

plot_3_1_modify_mesh_plot_appearance



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

